<head>
<title>Scheduler</title>
</head>

# Main concepts



  The job scheduler goal is to run interdependent jobs (i.e. one job might need one or several outputs from other jobs)
  
  - *Resources*: Any object is a resource, whether it is data, a job, or a server. Resources are located on different hosts
  that can be specified by a URI. For example, `file:///a/b/c` denotes a local folder or file, 
  while `xpm:token:user@hostname.org` corresponds to a token used to limit the number of launched processes on a given computer.
   
  - *[Connectors](connectors)*: Connectors specify how a resource can be accessed and how 
  processes can be launched. *Single connectors* (i.e., localhost and ssh) are built-in. 
  Composite connectors (i.e., describing a cluster of computers) can be built from single connectors.
  
  - *Resource state*: A resource can be in the state
    - `WAITING` (waiting for dependencies to be met),
    - `HOLD` (waiting a user action) consequently to a dependency being in the ERROR or HOLD state.
    - `DONE` when completed,
    - `ERROR`.

    For tasks that can be run, two other states are possible: 

    - `READY` (waiting to be run),
    - `RUNNING`,

  - *Groups*:
  One should allow to set a group for a set of experiments. For example: I run several series of experiment and call them "trec.test1", "trec.test2". I can then operate on all the resources of a specific group, like e.g. "trec" or "trec.test1".

# General architecture

## Resources

  We have the following types of resources:
  
  - Data: the output of one job (one job can have several outputs). Some data can also be already generated by an external process (e.g. a data collection) and be declared to experimaestro as read. Data can be in three states: `WAITING`, `HOLD` or `DONE`.
  
  - Task:
    * Job:  a task to be run, that produces a given set of resources.
    * Server: a task that need to be run; however, we don't wait for the server run to complete.
    *

## Status

  Every resource (see below) has a unique ID which is a path to a directory containing information about the resource on the
  host.

  Based on the file `${FILE}`, several paths are defined (note that not all files might be present)
  
  * `${FILE}.lock`   locks the write access to the status (can also be used as an exclusive lock to the resource)
    This file is used whenever an exclusive access is needed.
  * `${FILE}.status`  contains the PID of the running process (two columns PID MODE separated by space) where MODE is r, w.
    This file is used when the resource can be accessed by a single writer and multiple readers
  * `${FILE}.run`  corresponds to the script that are needed to execute the job
  * `${FILE}.code`  corresponds to the error code at the end of the execution of the job
  * `${FILE}.done` created when the job was successfully executed or the data successfully generated
  * `${FILE}.err`  contains the error log output (jobs only)
  * `${FILE}.out`  contains the standard log output (jobs only)
  * `${FILE}.input`  contains the standard input (jobs only)

# Using experimaestro


## Configuration

  The server and clients are configured by a simple property file, located in the `.experimaestro` (by default) file in the user's home directory.

    [server]
    ; Port for the Web server (and the XML-RPC server)
    port = 12345
    ; Experimaestro will store its data in this folder
    database = /path/to/a/valid/folder

    [passwords]

    USERNAME = PASSWORD, GROUP

    [client]

    url = http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@localhost:12345/xmlrpc

## Starting experimaestro

The `experimaestro` script can be used to start or stop the server, add jobs and resources. Type:

    experimaestro --help

to get some help on available commands.

## XML-RPC

The Experimaestro server can be reached [through XML-RPC calls](xmlrpc).
